# somes

The source code of the somes repository.

## The base structure is as follows:
- **`somes-api`**

    Is the backend of somes. It depends mainly on the [`axum`] web framework. Several client / frontend side applications can use the api to provide an individual interface for somes (e.g. website, desktop apps, smartphone apps).
    Later, this will also host the files generated by the frontend.

- **`sommes-common-lib`**

    A rust library containing common structures and code that should be used interoperability between the backend and the frontend applications, which are written in Rust. (e.g. `LoginInfo` is probably the same for both ends.)

- **`somes-svelte`**
    The somes frontend, written with Svelte.

[`axum`]: https://github.com/tokio-rs/axum
[`yew`]: https://github.com/yewstack/yew

## Building and running of the development suite

### Prerequisites
- **Rust** v1.64 or higher (with cargo)
- preferably `Visual Studio Code` with the `rust-analyzer` extension
- **Node**, **npm**
- **postgresql**
- **redis** key value store/database
- **diesel-cli** runs database migrations -> `cargo install diesel_cli --no-default-features --features postgres`

- **[`dataservice`]** different repo - somes software for scraping and storing gathered data (and do some dl with it) 

[`dataservice`]: https://github.com/som-es/dataservice

### Setup

- **dataservice** (used for somes-api)
    - postgres (steps are available for debian in `README` of [`dataservice`])
        - create `dataservice` database
        - you may want to change the user and password (also update this in the `.env` file (`DATASERVICE_URL`))
            - this env variable exists in `dataservice` and `somes`!

        - run migrations with diesel: `diesel migration run`
    - let the scraping begin
        - `DISABLE_SPEECH_TEXT="true" cargo run --release`
        

- **somes-svelte**
    `npm -i install`

### Running (debug)

Changes made to the api may be automatically reflected with `cargo-watch` (`cargo install cargo-watch`)

- **somes-api**: `JWT_SECRET="supersicher" cargo run --release`
    Start redis-server
    Start postgres
- **somes-svelte**: `npm run dev`
    You may want to change the api endpoint in `src/lib/api.ts`

## Contributing

Keep in mind that many different people may work on this project in the course of a few years.
Therefore, the code quality should be as high as possible.

How is this achieveable? General tips and conventions:
- document everything
- write unit tests
- keep functions small
- does a function really do the thing you described in the name?
- use simililar code style and naming -> all common structs should end with `Info`. (e.g. `LoginInfo`, `UserInfo`, `RegulationInfo`, ...)